Abstract
--------

An important aspect in visualization design is the connection between what you do and the decisions you make. However, the current design process models that the visualization community proposes and utilizes do not explicitly link back to models for visualization design decisions. We bridge this gap by introducing the design activity framework, which clearly connects back to a well-known decision model for visualization design: the nested model. We describe four overlapping activities that characterize the design process, while showing how outcomes relate to the nested model. To strengthen the framework, we further provide a list of exemplar methods and how they overlap among these activities. This framework is the result of reflective discussions from a collaboration on a visualization redesign project, so we provide the details of this project to ground the framework in a real-world design process. Lastly, from this cybersecurity redesign project, we provide a series of problem characterization outcomes, such as an extended data hierarchy model and rich opportunities for future visualization research in this domain.

Introduction
------------

As the field of visualization matures, theories and models that capture the how of visualization design have become more prevelant, from evaluation strategies to the design process itself. While these theories and models for the design process largely address the how of visualization design, they fail to explicitly describe the connections of those actions back to the why of visualization design decisions — these design decisions are described instead by separate design decision models. Furthermore, the visualization process is known to be messy, iterative, and complex, characteristics that are not fully described in existing visualization process models.

In particular, we encountered the insufficiencies of current visualization process models while working on a project with a multidisciplinary design team consisting of 2 visualization experts, 2 designers, and 1 psychologist. Our team was tackling the challenge of redesigning an existing visualization tool in the area of cybersecurity. As our team attempted to adopt the nine-stage framework for conducting design studies, we struggled to answer questions such as: if I’m not starting from the beginning, where exactly am I in the design process? What are the range of methods that are useful at any given point? What types of outcomes should I be working toward along the way? How do I know my outcomes are good, or even just good enough, when balanced against real-world constraints? We believe that these questions point to a lack of actionability in current visualization process models, or a lack of implementable and immediately usable guidance that helps a visualization practitioner explicitly navigate a real-world visualization design process.

On the other hand, the two designers in the group were accustomed to working with an iterative and open design process, and to exploring a broad range of methods for generating and evaluating outcomes throughout. Consequently, the two designers brought different experience and a unique set of insights and tools to our collaborative visualization design process. Although other visualization researchers stress that design and creativity research methods can play an effective role in visualization design, design research also tends to more explicitly emphasize and highlight the complex nature of the design process, as well as put an emphasis on constraints for design. It is not clear, however, how this design research explicitly addresses or captures well-established visualization design decisions, namely those described by the levels of the nested model. As a team, we struggled to reconcile the visualization design decisions we wanted to make with these various creative process models.

By reflecting on our own design process as a team, we identified a need for a process framework that balances the flexibility and actionability of models from the design community with the explicit outcomes and decisions necessary for visualization design. To meet this goal, we propose the design activity framework to explicitly bridge the gap between the activities that visualization designers do with the visualization decisions they make. This framework is composed of four overlapping activities: understand, ideate, make, and deploy. Each activity has a specific motivation to help place the visualization designer within the framework, as well as defined, tangible outcomes that relate to the levels of the nested model. Visualization designers produce outcomes in each activity using both generative methods as well as evaluative ones — the breadth and formality of these methods can, and should, be dictated by the real-world constraints of a project. We developed the design activity framework to overcome shortcomings in existing visualization design process models and to incorporate ideas from a broad range of models in HCI and design.

The primary contribution of this work is the new design activity framework for providing actionable guidance throughout the visualization design process. This framework makes explicit the link between the design process and the decisions that visualization designers make. In addition, we provide two secondary contributions: first, an extensive list of exemplar methods for use throughout the design activity framework, drawing on both well-known methods from the visualization community as well as many less common methods found in the design literature; and second, we use the context of our redesign project to illustrate how the details of a real-world design process are captured by the framework. Lastly, we highlight a tertiary contribution from our cybersecurity redesign project, where our framework enabled us to identify key problem characterization outcomes, such as an extended data hierarchy model and rich opportunities for future visualization research in this application domain.
