Introduction
------------

Social scientists struggle to understand why certain organizations are able to both attract and sustain the attention of the public, while many others cannot. These organizations strive to get the public’s attention in order to promote change and increase awareness. These organizations thus also have a vested interest into how and why they can improve their strategies of attracting attention. The limiting factor here is that most people do not have the time or patience to juggle all these different organizations at once, so a small portion of the organizations actually get the public’s attention. Understanding this collective behavior and how it relates to attention is a critical research question for sociologists.

In order to understand this collective behavior, social scientists have turned to social media, like Twitter and Facebook, to analyze the real-time diffusion of information. On these social media sites, individuals can access, respond to, and distrubute updates from these organizations. By tracking and recording this information, it is possible to gain insight into how and why only certain organizations are able to attract the public’s attention. Besides enabling sociologists to understand this collective behavior, it can also allow for organizations to improve how they attract and sustain attention. The tricky part with this data is privacy; protecting the privacy of the individuals and organizations being studied is a tricky thing to balance in the digital age.

The role of visualization when analyzing these diversely rich datasets is exploration. By working for months closely in cohort with a sociologist researcher, a unique tool was developed to adapt to his workflow of generating a model from this large, multidimensional dataset. This tool expands beyond the typical concept of a social network as a node-link diagram, and it presents a novel way to explore text-based and aggregated network data, all in the context of developing a model for post virality.
