Introduction
------------

Cybersecurity analysis is critical for maintaining the security of computer networks. This analysis, however, is extremely challenging due to the scale of the data as well as the constantly evolving nature of cybersecurity attacks. To uncover, stop, and recover from these attacks requires significant human interpretation, posing great opportunities, as well as challenges, for visualization. Analysis of cybersecurity data is currently a data-intensive task prone to mistakes, errors, and miscalculations because analysts must interpret large quantities of streaming data. This data presents many opportunties for visualization to impact the way that security analysts perform their many data-intensive tasks, however, many existing visualization tools filter out or summarize information that analysts would argue is crucial to their analysis workflow.

We worked as a multidiciplinary visualization team on a redesign project, lasting seven months, as we focused on improving the usability and effectiveness of a currently deployed robust visualization system (RVS) for cybersecurity analysts. Specifically, our team was tasked with providing ideas for how to redesign the visualization of information within RVS. Over the course of the project we worked with: developers, researchers, and managers at the company that developed and maintains RVS; several Department of Defense intrusion analysts that use RVS; and several cybersecurity analysts at our team’s university. This redesign project included several real-world constraints for our team, namely a strict time frame for producing redesign ideas, limited funding available for implementing our ideas by software developers, confidentiality issues surrounding cybersecurity data, and the engineering realities of working within a large software system.

For our redesign process, we first took a step back from the existing tool to characterize and understand the visualization challenges in the field of cybersecurity analysis. Significant research exists on the types of tasks and data that analysts work with, which we analyzed to develop a series of design requirements to motivate and guide our redesign. We found that several of these insights regarding the problem characterization offer rich opportunities for visualization that are not currently met by existing tools.

From our interviews, we learned that cybersecurity analysts rely on command-line and simple text-based tools to analyze millions, if not billions, of network packets, daily. Visualization can prove to be challenging to these analysts if the visualization summarizes away the detail, obscuring the critical outliers. Often, cybersecurity attackers try to hide within the “noise” of the data: i.e. attackers try to mask an attack within normal network patterns. Network traffic data is also inherently very chaotic, so it can be difficult to distinguish an attack from normal usage. Many visualization tools try to simplify the data in order to visualize it, and that is one concern many cybersecurity analysts have when it comes to utilizing visualization in their workflow. This is a crucial consideration for the design of cybersecurity data: properly handle data within an analyst’s workflow.

Based on our analysis of the literature and interviews with analysts, we brainstormed ideas for improving RVS and prototyped several visualization redesigns. Taking these prototypes, the company that maintains RVS selected a handful of our recommended changes, implemented these within the tool, and validated their effectiveness with several cybersecurity experts.
